# Islandora Preservation Interest Group

## Convenors

* Donald Moses (UPEI)
* Nick Ruest (York)
* Mark Jordan (SFU)
* Alex Kent (PALS)

## Terms of Reference

* The name of the IIG is the Islandora Preservation Interest Group
* The purpose of the Islandora Preservation Interest Group is to develop and communicate a common approach to address preservation within the Islandora framework.
* Specific goals, activities, outcomes may include:
  * Discussing, developing, testing, implementing and documenting preservation best practices within the Islandora framework.
    * Implementing Persistent URLs
      * [Islandora Pathauto](https://github.com/rosiel/islandora_pathauto)
      * [Islandora Handle](https://github.com/discoverygarden/islandora_handle)
      * [Islandora DOI](https://github.com/discoverygarden/islandora_doi)
    * Building and supporting tools that facilitate the production of PREMIS or other preservation metadata.
      * [Islandora PREMIS](https://github.com/Islandora/islandora_premis)
    * Building and supporting tools that facilitate preservation workflows.
      * [Islandora Checksum](https://github.com/Islandora/islandora_checksum)
      * [Islandora Checksum Checker](https://github.com/Islandora/islandora_checksum_checker)
      * [Islandora FITS](https://github.com/Islandora/islandora_fits)
      * Islandora Microservices
        * Explore and develop [autonomic](http://www.unesco.org/new/fileadmin/MULTIMEDIA/HQ/CI/CI/pdf/mow/VC_Allasia_et_al_28_1150.pdf) approaches to preservation activities.
          * Self-configuration
          * Self-protection
          * Self-optimization
          * Self-healing
        * Implementations
          * [UPEI Microservices](https://github.com/roblib/php_listeners) [PHP Based]
          * [Islandora Microservices](https://github.com/Islandora/islandora_microservices) [Python Based]
        * ensure that Islandora/microservices generates/captures/records preservation metadata/events
        * build workflows that facilitate the automation of preservation activities (eg. checksum checking, report generation, format migration, off-site storage, etc.)
  * Developing Islandora preservation format policies
    * [Format Registry Problem](http://journal.code4lib.org/articles/8029) (Code4Lib article)
    * [Islandora Preservation Documentation](https://github.com/dmoses/islandora_preservation_documentation) (started here based on [Nick’s repo](https://github.com/yorkulibraries/preservation_documentation) docs / ScholarsPortal)
    * [Archivematica’s format policies](https://www.archivematica.org/wiki/Format_policies)
    * [Archivematica’s Format Policy Registry](https://www.archivematica.org/wiki/Administrator_manual_1.0#Format_Policy_Registry_.28FPR.29)
  * Exploring Islandora’s integration with other preservation workflow frameworks.
    * [Archivematica](https://www.archivematica.org/wiki/Main_Page)
    * [Scout](http://www.openplanetsfoundation.org/blogs/2013-12-16-scout-preservation-watch-system) (OpenPlanets)
  * Exploring various export, storage and backup options
    * [Islandora BagIt](https://github.com/islandora/islandora_bagit)
    * [Islandora Vault](https://github.com/ppound/cirrostratus_assimilate) (islandora integration with CloudSync and DuraCloud in Paul Pound’s github)
    * [Islandora LOCKSS-O-Matic](https://github.com/mjordan/islandora_lockssomatic) (in Mark J’s git … awesome)
    * [Drupal Amazon Web Services](https://drupal.org/project/aws_amazon) (potentially the base of an Islandora module … would it hook to Glacier?)
  * Exploring Islandora preservation within the Fedora4 context.
  * Keeping abreast of preservation activities within the Fedora community.
    * Hydra
    * RODA
  * Aligning Islandora’s preservation framework with the requirements of Trusted Digital Repository/TRAC certification.
* The interest group will meet once a month virtually (eg. via Skype). A call for agenda items will be posted to the Islandora Google Group 1 week prior to the meeting. The convenor will appoint a note taker for the meeting and meeting notes will be made available at some url.
* The convenors will produce a report to be submitted to the Islandora Roadmap Committee following the IPIG’s meeting.

## Membership

* [Mark Jordan](https://github.com/mjordan) (Simon Fraser University)
* [Nick Ruest](https://github.com/ruebot) (York University)
* Donald Moses (UPEI)
* Melissa Anez (Islandora Foundation)
* Mark Leggott (UPEI)
* Ryan Gjerde (Luther College)
* Nathan Books (Northern Illinois University)
* Aaron Collie (Michigan State University)
* Alex Kent (PALS)
* Michael Bolam (University of Pittsburgh)
* Kelli Babcock (University of Toronto Libraries)    
* Allison Brown (University of Otago Library)
* Kirsta Stapelfeldt (University of Toronto)
* Becky Yoose (Grinnell College Libraries)
* Ernie Gillis (Berklee College of Music Archives)
* Sofia Becerra-Licha (Berklee College of Music Archives)
* Gloria Gonzalez (UCLA)
* Stephen Davison (UCLA)
* Jane Monson (University of Northern Colorado)
* Andrew Berger (Computer History Museum)
* Caleb Derven (University of Limerick)
* Kilian Amrhein (Zuse Institute Berlin)
* [Eric Luhrs](https://github.com/eluhrs) (Lafayette College Libraries)
* [James R. Griffin III](https://github.com/jrgriffiniii) (Lafayette College Libraries)
* [Thomas Goodnow](https://github.com/goodnowt) (Lafayette College Libraries)
* [Alex Garnet](https://github.com/axfelix) (Simon Fraser University)
* Angela Dappert (Digital Preservation Coalition)
* Courtney Mumma (Artefactual)
* [Brad Spry](bradspry) (UNC Charlotte)
* Felicity Dykas (University of Missouri)
* Lydia Motyka (Florida Virtual Campus)
