#Meeting Notes, 2015-01-16, 4:00 PM Eastern

Attending: Robin Dean (CO Alliance), Mark Jordan (SFU), Nick Ruest (York U.), Michael Bolam (U. of Pittsburg)

Absent: Donald Moses (UPEI), Melissa Anez (IF)

## Goals of the working group
- Highlight Islandora's preservation capabilities with better documentation
- Expand the information captured by the PREMIS module (where it makes sense to)
- Help prepare preservation metadata for move to Fedora 4
- Work with PREMIS board to review Islandora PREMIS implementation

## Working with PREMIS in Islandora
- A JIRA ticket made the PREMIS module only available to users with "Manage" tab permissions

## PREMIS and Fedora 4
https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/FF/Fedora+3+to+4+Upgration+Checklist

https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/FF/Upgration+Pilot+-+York+University
- Nick and Danny are officially starting on the prototype for Islandora & Fedora 4 on Monday
- There will be a call at 10 AM ET every other Thursday to discuss Fedora 4 progress
- Move to Fedora4: no more FOXML, but they are looking for feedback on what people use from the audit metadata
- Because the PREMIS module depends on the Fedora audit metadata part of the FOXML, we should submit issues about the importance of recording this information somewhere in Fedora 4
  - *Action item:* Mark will create issues in the Fedora 4 GitHub: https://github.com/Islandora/Islandora-Fedora4-Interest-Group/issues
  - Is the ability to export all or part of a Fedora 4 object as XML important for PREMIS compliance?
- Should keep going on the Fedora 3.x PREMIS module for now, because production Fedora 4 + Islandora is a longer timeline (1-2 years)
 
## PREMIS mapping spreadsheet
Link to view DRAFT:  https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1kcbw4SQV3_raU0EqEcxw2Ro7b85_vV7cMKkVQn6qLT8/edit?usp=sharing

- Goal of the spreadsheet is to have PREMIS information we can share in the Islandora documentation and with other groups (PREMIS reviewers, Fedora 4 migration team)
- PREMIS levels: We only record PREMIS at the representation (Fedora object) and file (datastream) level, because Fedora doesn't have a smaller level of control than files (no bitstream level) 
- Object- and file-level metadata: do they need to be separated, or can we keep it all in the same file? 
  - It's all in one file right now and the PREMIS is validating
  - Might be something to ask Evelyn (before PREMIS review)
- Document the fact that the PREMIS is being generated on the fly (not stored as a datastream)
  - Does this result in a lower level of PREMIS compliance?
  - Keep it this way for now in Fedora 3.x to avoid infinite loops of Fedora object updating.
- *Action item:* Robin will keep updating the spreadsheet to document everything currently being done by the XSL, then will share back with the rest of group by mid-Feb

## Next meeting
- *Action item:* Mark will schedule another Preservation IG meeting (end of Jan - early Feb)
- *Action item:* Robin will schedule another meeting of PREMIS WG at end of Feb (after Preservation meeting)
 

