# Preservation Interest Group: Meeting 02

## September 11, 2014 9:00 - 10:00 am Pacific (noon - 1:00 pm Eastern, 1:00 - 2:00 pm Atlantic)

## Agenda

* Updates 
  * Islandora 7.x-1.4
     * Approaching code freeze on September 15th.
     * September 26th a release candidate will be prepared and an VM provided for testing
* Relevant Jira tickets
  * [Move PREMIS tab under Manage?](https://jira.duraspace.org/browse/ISLANDORA-1007)
     * consensus to move the PREMIS tab under Manage.
     * Mark J merge and test it.
     * further development ... many potential integrations. (MJ)
  * [checksum initialization](https://jira.duraspace.org/browse/ISLANDORA-1026)
     * This module can have unintended impacts.  Improve the documentation to inform users of potential issues. 
     Discussion related to permissions and adding a separate permission for retrospective checksumming.
     https://github.com/Islandora/islandora_checksum/blob/7.x/islandora_checksum.module#L10 
     * Ticket closed/answered
     * Nick R. to add an improvement ticket to add a separate ticket for permissions related to retrospective checksumming.
  * [Islandora ClamAV](https://jira.duraspace.org/browse/ISLANDORA-1038) 
     (+ subissue of creating a PREMIS event template and making Islandora PREMIS a dependency for modules that use it)
     * Two issues adding a ClamAV module and adding events PREMIS events in a consistent way.
     * Nick to split out the ticket into two tickets.
     * Islandora ClamAV module development
         * Runs uploaded files through ClamAV (either on the server or externally as a service)
         * Assign the ClamAV ticket to Mark J to look at the module
     * Abstract out the PREMIS event template so that other modules could leverage it. 
         * Nick to create a PREMIS template ticket.
  * [Include events other than those documenting fixity checks?](https://jira.duraspace.org/browse/ISLANDORA-1008)
     * Discussion about the kinds of events that are capture-able in Islandora. Are there other events that can/should be captured.
        * Working group to look at PREMIS events - Robin, Mike, Mark, Nick, Donald
            * Use Wiki to document. Eg. new PREMIS standard.
        * Share draft proposal with the PREMIS editorial board. Share draft with Islandora Google Group.
        * PREMIS module is registered.
  * [Get PUID from FITS and populate the ds->format property and related PREMIS elements](https://jira.duraspace.org/browse/ISLANDORA-1031)
      * Islandora detects mimetypes, but don't always map to file formats.  
      Format identification/characterization is the preferred method. PRONOM is a supported file format registry.
      FITS module can identify a format. Do we want to store the PUID of the format in the Fedora Object?
      An ingest hook in FITS or leverage the PREMIS template.
      Complete for Islandora 7.1.5
      Robin's question: storing of PREMIS ... in a repository migration, where can the PREMIS come from? 
      Robin to document PREMIS use cases. Nick to report to Fedora Group.
* QAdan [feedback](http://pastebin.com/raw.php?i=eHMS1YYe)
      * Islandora Checksum 
         * QADan to flesh out the test
         * FOXML to GSearch to include the checksums in the index.
            * Discussion about why to index checksums? 
       * Islandora Bagit
          * issues with downloading XML files ... turning to .bin ... fix is in the works
          * currently not many plugins.
             * discussion about SP (or Islandora modules in general) specific BagIt module
             * discussion about an approach
* [Islandora Background Processes Discussion Paper](https://github.com/Islandora/Islandora-Preservation-Interest-Group/tree/main/background_services_discussion_paper)
   * An informal group to discuss / brainstorm an approach 
      * Draft an email to the list with timelines/goals (Nick, Mark)
* Next Meeting
   * monthly calls
   * Nick to push out a Doodle poll for next meeting in October.

## Attendees
Mark Jordan, Nick Ruest, Robin Dean, Peter Murray, Alex Garrnet, Melissa Anez, Alex Kent?, QADan, Brad Spry, Mike Bolam, Jaime Pinto

## Notes
* notes are inline
