# Preservation Interest Group: Meeting 03

## October 30, 2014 9:00 - 10:00 am Pacific (noon - 1:00 pm Eastern, 1:00 - 2:00 pm Atlantic)

## Agenda

1. Introductions  
Nick R. (chair)  
Peter Murray  
Mke Bolem  
Robin Dean  
Melissa Anez  
Mark Jordan (note taker)  
Becky Yoose (left early)  
Brad Spry (come in after start)  

2. Updates

* 7.x-1.4 release
 
Nick reports that release will happen tomorrow. Peter asked if anything is the release is impacting any of the preservation modules; Nick repsonded that some tickets (small bug fixes, cleanup) against preservation modules have been closed. PREMIS tab is now under Manage.

* PREMIS Working Group
 
Robin reports that she will convene the first tmeeting next week via the Islandora list. Members are Robin, Nick, Mark, Mike. If anyone else wants in, or has any nominations, let Robin know. Mark summarized Evelyn McLellan's interest in the module (she's on the PREMIS Editorial Board and has been asked to review our work).
  
* External Services working group

Members so far are Mark J., Nick, and Mark L. Mark will send a ping to the lists today. Let him know if anyone knows of more people who might be interested.

3. PDF Solution Pack -- PDF/A

Some interest in creating a PDF/A derivative on ingest. Nick will create a JIRA ticket, with the goal of including it in 7.x-1.5 in April. Peter asked if the goal was to generate a PDF/A or to validate the OJB. We need use cases, but there was quite a bit of discussion about how to collect them and how to scope them. Brad said that UNC Charlotte has a use case, for electronic text books. Mark j. will draft an email soliciting use cases (and have Nick take a look first) and send it to the Islandora user list.

Nick mentioned that JIRA has a voting feature that we should consider using for new features.

4. FITS -> Solr (slurp_all_fits.xslt)

Nick described a project his is working on to index FITS into Solr. This might be useful as there is currently no way to query the FITS datastream or to display it in any way other than the template provided by the FITS module. An example query is "give me all the items in my repo that were scanned with the EPSON Expression 1000XL scanner." Another would be "give me all the audio datastreams whose duration is more than 1 hour." Anyone who is interested should contact Nick.

## Attendees

See Introductions.

## Notes

* notes are inline

## Other business

Next meeting will be in January (doodle poll to follow). For January agenda, we should discuss planning regular meetings on the last Thursday of each month (or some other recurring date).

Melissa asked about the membership of the Preservation IG. Nick referred her to the list at https://github.com/Islandora/Islandora-Preservation-Interest-Group/blob/master/README.md.

Brad described how UNC Charlotte is exerting their archival access rights for textbooks. He will share slides of an upcoming presentation.


