# Preservation Interest Group: Meeting 04

## Time
Wednesday, Feb. 4 at 10 am PST (2 PM AST/ 1 PM EST)

## Agenda

1. Introductions
  Mark Jordan (SFU) (Chair)
  Nick Ruest (York)
  Don Moses (UPEI)
  Melissa Anez (Islandora)
  Robin Dean (Colorado)
  Alex Garnett (SFU) (Notes)

2. Update
  * 7.x-1.5 release
    * New modules:
      * Solution pack entities
      * Solution pack disk image
      * IP embargo
      * Islandora Pathauto
      * pdfjs
  * PREMIS Working Group
      * Discussion about granularity, mandatory top-level items, etc.
      * Notes: https://github.com/Islandora/Islandora-Preservation-Interest-Group/blob/master/premis_working_group/meetings/2015-01-16.md
      * Not using PREMIS bitstream level (redundant)
  * External Services working group
  * PDF Solution Pack -- PDF/A
    * PDF/A generation has been incorporated into the PDF Solution Pack - [ISLANDORA-1130](https://jira.duraspace.org/browse/ISLANDORA-1130).

3. iCampBC, Feb. 16-18

## Attendees

See Introductions.

## Notes

* notes are inline

## Other business



