# Preservation Interest Group: Meeting 05

## Time
Monday, June 22 @ 1 pm EST

## Medium
Skype. Mark Jordan will call the group; if you're not on his contact list, send him a contact request at mark dot jordan50.

## Agenda

1. Introductions

2. Working Groups Update
  * PREMIS Working Group 
  * External Services Working Group
  
The sub-working groups will continue to meet as needed, and members of those groups will serve as liaisons or advocates to other interest groups such as Fedora IG, Metadata IG, and Archival IG.

3. Conference Updates
  * Islandora Camp EU
  * OR 2015, June 8-11
    * Preservation related updates

4. PREMIS event vocabulary proposal
  * [Library of Congress Event Type vocabulary](http://id.loc.gov/vocabulary/preservation/eventType.html)
  * Decision: Any Islandora (F3) modules that need to write to the Audit Log should take their event type terms from the [auditTrail mapping vocabulary](https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/FF/Audit+Service+Repository+Events+and+Agents). If the Islandora community needs to extend this list, they should do so in collaboration with the larger Fedora community.

5. Islandora related modules

6. Fedora 4
