# Preservation Interest Group: Meeting 06

## Time
the First Thursday of each month at 1:00pm EST

## Medium
  * Skype. 
  * If you've not participated in a meeting previously please provide your Skype username

## Agenda

1. Introductions
 * Attendees: Mark Jordan (notes), Nick Ruest, Melissa Anez, Donald Moses
 
2. iPIG report  
  * https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Bs_8_xeYGT0J_xMg6J2a_FsaPa8z4WnTMeuHKZgMBAw/edit?usp=sharing
  * some pointers in the notes to the intersections with F4/Islandora and preservation.

3. Conference Updates
  * Islandora Conference
    * Had a face to face meeting at the Islandora Conference and some good discussion.  
  * uConn Islandora Camp
    * No presentation about preservation at the Camp ... much interest in where the stack is going with F4 and the current stack itself. 

4. Islandora 7.x-2 and Fedora 4 - Review, understand and test Fedora 4 preservation features and how they’ll intersect with Islandora.
  * Fixity
   * Discussion about checksumming in the F3 context (there is the option to apply many checksum methods to datastreams) as compared to F4 (which only supports SHA-1 at the moment).
     * We'll need to figure out how to migrate checksums from F3 to F4. Nick suggests starting a conversation on the fedora tech list in preparation for opening a JIRA ticket on this issue. 
   * Nick noted that the F4 community are looking at ways to make the [fixity service](https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/FEDORA44/RESTful+HTTP+API+-+Fixity) more restful. 
  * Backup and restore
  * Export and import
      * [migration-utils](https://github.com/fcrepo4-exts/migration-utils).
      * Nick highlighted that those items with the ‡ in migration-utils still need work.
      * Brief discussion about BagIt and the [use case](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Fedora4-Interest-Group/issues/13).
  * Transactions
  * Auditing Service
     * Support for PREMIS ontology
     * Some modules like Islandora PREMIS may operate at a lower level than they do now, eg., at the Fedora level rather than in the Drupal module level.

5. Islandora 7.x-2 
  * In the near term, we need to recruit more testers for upgration. Donald will start testing [migration-utils](https://github.com/fcrepo4-exts/migration-utils).

TO DO: 
* send announcements/reminders out earlier
* check with current members and check to see who can help do the work that will be needed.
