# Preservation Interest Group: Meeting 07

## Time
Thurday, Jan. 7 @ 1:00pm EST

## Medium
  * Skype. 
  * If you've not participated in a meeting previously please provide your Skype username

## Agenda

1. Introductions
2. Islandora 7.x-2 and Fedora 4 update
3. Round table

## Participants

* Marcus Barnes (new!)
* Nick Ruest
* Mark Jordan
* Melissa Anez


1. Marcus joins us from SFU, has been working on Islandora migration and various tools to help with that.
2. Second sprint is complete. Had a [tech call](https://github.com/Islandora-CLAW/CLAW/wiki/January-6%2C-2016) yesterday, looking at the next sprint, Fedora 4 camp, contract work to change vagarant set up from bash to Ansible with Docker support and documentation. Not much specifically dealing with preservation - focus now is to move services from java to php to make contributions easier. The sprint will probably be around collection services and PCDM work. Tech calls are weekly, sprints will be monthly.
3. Roundtable:

* Mark: SFU is moving to Islandora to get a better handle on their assets. ContentDM only cares about web-facing, not the master copies. Since Islandora handles both and is flexible enough to do preservation. Mark is working towards a true preservation program. The establishment of a frameowrk and action plans for various content types at SFU has been approved by the Library Administration. Mark is bootstrapping a working group to work with stakeholders to deverlop action plans, mostly in Islandora. Anything publically accessible will be Islandora. Using York as an example. Mark and Marcus have been working on mirgation, using the [MIK tool](https://github.com/MarcusBarnes/mik), which has proved very handy and flexible. Great for loading FITS data beforehand instead of creating it on ingest. No deriviative creation on ingest for Newspaper - making it all beforehand and loading it in. 
* Nick: is looking to switch [this](https://github.com/uml-digitalinitiatives/fc3-camel-indexer) for gsearch. York's DIAG is concentrating on doing preservation policy. Nov and Dec were spent working on [this collection policy](https://digital.library.yorku.ca/documentation/collection-policy), now approved. Now working on Terms of Use, hoping to have it approved in a couple of weeks (to make available for others to borrow from as needed). THe new version of FITS came out in December, with video support. Nick tested it out on [Dini Petty videos](https://digital.library.yorku.ca/yul-522910/dini-petty-showeps-10631994-11-30from-digibeta) and was impressed with how much data was available.
4. New topics: BagIt ingester for Islandora. It would be pretty easy to dump out an object and its deriviatives in a Bag format and re-import it. Mark is busy until April, but proposes this as a topic for consideration: a version of Batch importer that works with BagIt. BagIt is also under consideration as a batch import option for CLAW.
